# Santander Product Recommendation

### Abstract

Santander is a multinational bank in Spain offering an array of financial services and products. Under their current system, a small number of Santander’s customers receive many recommendations while many others rarely see any resulting in an uneven customer experience. Models were built to aid the bank in selling products through mass marketing as well as personalized recommendations.
Customers were segmented based on the number of relations they held with the bank. All customers having more than two accounts were considered and equal width segmentation was applied. Market basket analysis was performed in all three segments and the association rules derived from each segment were used to select the potential products for mass marketing strategies. Those products in rules which had a high lift and low expected confidence were identified as high potential low selling products which could be mass marketed. 
Santander’s core business involves a client relationship manager guiding a client’s investment decisions.  Recommender systems can aid relationship managers with making personalized and automated selection of next best products for private banking clients. Different types of collaborative filtering recommender systems were built to help select the next best offer. Since the data had information only about the presence or absence of a product with a customer, Implicit Feedback CF with Alternating Least Squares was implemented where products were modelled as a function of Preference and Confidence. This system was improved by a user-user similarity-based system and further enhanced by incorporating demographic correlations. For the enhanced model, pairwise user-user similarity using cosine similarity using user-demography vectors was calculated. For each user, based on the enhanced similarity scores, 1000 users were identified using the k-Nearest Neighbors technique. The items to be recommended were predicted as a weighted average of the preferences from each user’s neighborhood. Precision and Recall @ K were used to evaluate the recommender systems.  
Index terms – Equal width segmentation, market basket analysis, association rules, recommender systems, implicit feedback collaborative filtering, alternating least squares, demographic correlations.

### Introduction

Banco Santander, S.A., doing business as Santander Group, is a Spanish multinational commercial bank and financial services company founded and based in Santander, Spain. It offers an array of financial services and products including retail banking, mortgages, corporate banking, cash management, credit card, capital markets, trust and wealth management, and insurance. The bank is interested in improving its personal product recommendation system for its customers. It collects marketing information about its customers and associates it with bank account products. Under their current system, a small number of Santander’s customers receive many recommendations while many others rarely see any resulting in an uneven customer experience. With an effective recommendation system in place, Santander can better meet the individual needs of all customers and ensure their satisfaction.
